README.md, before:

# Shelfy - Social Book Tracking App

Shelfy is a full-stack web application designed for book lovers to track their reading progress, discover new books, and connect with others in reading groups.

## ✨ Key Features

- **Personal Library:** Add books to your collection, track your reading status (e.g., Currently Reading, Finished), and view your reading history.
- **Social Groups:** Create or join reading groups with friends. Share progress and discuss books together.
- **Reading Activity:** Visualize your reading habits with charts and stats.
- **User Profiles:** Customize your profile, upload an avatar, and see your reading statistics.
- **Book Discovery:** Search for new books to add to your library.
- **Interactive Discussions:** Leave comments and notes on books you are reading.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Framework:** [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) (App Router)
- **Language:** [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- **Database:** [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) with [Prisma ORM](https://www.prisma.io/)
- **Authentication:** [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org/)
- **Styling:** [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) & [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- **Deployment:** [Vercel](https://vercel.com/)

## 🚀 Getting Started

Follow these instructions to set up the project locally.

### 1. Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) (v18 or later)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) running locally or on a server.

### 2. Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    cd Shelfy
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

### 3. Environment Setup

1.  Create a `.env.local` file in the root of the project by copying the example file:
    ```bash
    cp .env .env.local
    ```

2.  Update the variables in `.env.local` with your local configuration. At a minimum, you will need to set:
    ```env
    # Prisma
    DATABASE_URL="postgresql://USER:PASSWORD@HOST:PORT/DATABASE?schema=public"

    # NextAuth
    NEXTAUTH_URL="http://localhost:3000"
    NEXTAUTH_SECRET="your-super-secret-key"

    # Google Provider (NextAuth)
    GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID="your-google-client-id"
    GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET="your-google-client-secret"

    # Google Books API
    GOOGLE_BOOKS_API_KEY="your-google-books-api-key"

    # Resend API for emails
    RESEND_API_KEY="your_resend_api_key"
    ```

### 4. Database Setup

1.  **Apply database migrations:** This will create the necessary tables in your database based on the schema.
    ```bash
    npx prisma migrate dev
    ```

2.  **(Optional) Seed the database:** This will populate the database with initial data.
    ```bash
    npx prisma db seed
    ```

### 5. Run the Development Server

Start the Next.js development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

## 📂 Project Structure

- `src/app/(dashboard)`: Contains all the protected routes and pages for the main user dashboard.
- `src/app/api`: Houses all the API routes for backend functionality.
- `src/components`: Contains reusable React components used throughout the application.
- `src/lib`: Includes utility functions, database helpers (Prisma client), and authentication configuration.
- `prisma`: Holds the database schema (`schema.prisma`), migrations, and seed script.

## 🚢 Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

Commit message:

feat: Introduce Free Beta Mode
This commit transitions the application into a 'Free Beta Mode,' making all features, including previously premium ones, available to all users free of charge. This change is designed to encourage user adoption and gather feedback during the beta period.

Key changes include:

- **Disabled Premium Restrictions:** All subscription-based limitations on features such as group creation, member limits, and personal book library size have been removed. The application now operates as if every user has an unlimited free plan.

- **Deactivated Stripe Billing:** All Stripe-related billing and subscription management endpoints 'create-checkout-session', 'cancel-subscription', 'create-portal-session', 'webhook' are now conditionally disabled. They will return a '501 Not Implemented' status unless the 'NEXT_PUBLIC_ENABLE_PREMIUM' environment variable is set to 'true'.

- **Simplified Subscription Logic:** The 'useUserSubscription' hook has been refactored to return a static 'free plan' snapshot, removing unnecessary API calls and simplifying client-side logic. The backend subscription utilities 'subscription-utils.ts' have been updated to reflect the 'always free' mode.

- **Updated User Interface:**
  - The subscription page '/subscription' has been redesigned to clearly communicate the free beta status and outline which features are included.
  - The 'Discover' page, a former premium feature, is now a 'Coming Soon' page, indicating future development.
  - The top navigation bar has been updated to remove links to premium-only sections and reflect the user's current plan as 'Gratuit illimité (bêta)'.

- **Code Cleanup:** Removed the 'SubscriptionLimitError' custom error and related checks from API routes and frontend components, resulting in a cleaner and more streamlined codebase.

README.md, after:

# Shelfy - Social Book Tracking App

Shelfy is a full-stack web application designed for book lovers to track their reading progress, discover new books, and connect with others in reading groups.

## ✨ Key Features

- **Personal Library:** Add books to your collection, track your reading status (e.g., Currently Reading, Finished), and view your reading history.
- **Social Groups:** Create or join reading groups with friends. Share progress and discuss books together.
- **Reading Activity:** Visualize your reading habits with charts and stats.
- **User Profiles:** Customize your profile, upload an avatar, and see your reading statistics.
- **Book Discovery:** Search for new books to add to your library.
- **Interactive Discussions:** Leave comments and notes on books you are reading.

## 🆓 Free Beta Mode

- Shelfy is currently running as an unlimited free plan for every user: no quotas, no premium gating, and no user can be marked as “premium” in the database.
- The subscription page is read-only and simply previews the future plans while highlighting that paid features are under construction.
- All Stripe endpoints (checkout, portal, cancel, webhook, plan switching) short-circuit with `501 Not Implemented` while `NEXT_PUBLIC_ENABLE_PREMIUM` is not set to `true`, so there is no billing activity in production.
- Premium-only navigation such as the **Discover** page is hidden for now and replaced with a “Bientôt disponible” notice until paid tiers return.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Framework:** [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) (App Router)
- **Language:** [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- **Database:** [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) with [Prisma ORM](https://www.prisma.io/)
- **Authentication:** [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org/)
- **Styling:** [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) & [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- **Deployment:** [Vercel](https://vercel.com/)

## 🚀 Getting Started

Follow these instructions to set up the project locally.

### 1. Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) (v18 or later)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) running locally or on a server.

### 2. Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    cd Shelfy
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

### 3. Environment Setup

1.  Create a `.env.local` file in the root of the project by copying the example file:
    ```bash
    cp .env .env.local
    ```

2.  Update the variables in `.env.local` with your local configuration. At a minimum, you will need to set:
    ```env
    # Prisma
    DATABASE_URL="postgresql://USER:PASSWORD@HOST:PORT/DATABASE?schema=public"

    # NextAuth
    NEXTAUTH_URL="http://localhost:3000"
    NEXTAUTH_SECRET="your-super-secret-key"

    # Google Provider (NextAuth)
    GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID="your-google-client-id"
    GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET="your-google-client-secret"

    # Google Books API
    GOOGLE_BOOKS_API_KEY="your-google-books-api-key"

    # Resend API for emails
    RESEND_API_KEY="your_resend_api_key"
    ```

### 4. Database Setup

1.  **Apply database migrations:** This will create the necessary tables in your database based on the schema.
    ```bash
    npx prisma migrate dev
    ```

2.  **(Optional) Seed the database:** This will populate the database with initial data.
    ```bash
    npx prisma db seed
    ```

### 5. Run the Development Server

Start the Next.js development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

## 📂 Project Structure

- `src/app/(dashboard)`: Contains all the protected routes and pages for the main user dashboard.
- `src/app/api`: Houses all the API routes for backend functionality.
- `src/components`: Contains reusable React components used throughout the application.
- `src/lib`: Includes utility functions, database helpers (Prisma client), and authentication configuration.
- `prisma`: Holds the database schema (`schema.prisma`), migrations, and seed script.

## 🚢 Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.
